---
date: '2025-12-18T00:25:10Z'
draft: false
title: 'Category Graph Zoom'
author: pre
category:
- news
- exocortexLog
cover:
  alt: An image
  image: img/2025/zoomingCats.png
Description: "Category Graph Improvements"
---

V0.1.12 - 

We add a zoom drop-menu for the Categories graph,
this enables a lot more control over the way the
graph is displayed.

Looking back at my own data the last 100 months we can
see in general I'm quite seasonal. Festivals are 
a lot of social all weekend, and a couple of them 
in a month really bumps up the hours spent socialising.

The peak in 2019 is a summer filled with Glasto
and Noisily and another festival or camping trip
I don't seem to have recorded the name of.

Then the drop-off in social activity as the 
COVID pandemic hit.  Virtual-Social (IE zoom 
meetings and the like) picked up quite a bit 
around there but had died back to almost nothing way 
before the hours spent with actual people started 
to tick up.

Annoyingly, I have my biggest gap in data right
on top of the pandemic there where I failed to back
up much and then data became corrupted.

When the data-hole is over we see social life 
still not really returning until the middle of
2021 and not really getting back into stride until
summer 2022.

Remains much lower on average with lower peaks
than before the pandemic. Multiple reasons.

Work is pretty constant all the way though other
than the data-hole. Dipping when I take time off
for social mostly.

That data-hole is annoying. Back up your data kids.


