---
date: '2025-12-05T14:01:14Z'
draft: false
title: 'Release!'
author: pre
category:
- news
- exocortexLog
cover:
  alt: An image
  image: /news/img/exocortexlog.png
---

A few weeks ago I saw <a href="https://primal.net/derekross">derekross@grownostr.org</a>
giving a talk and demo of <a href="https://shakespeare.diy/">Shakespeare</a>,
a Chrome app for vibe-coding.

Explain the app you want, and the model you select will build it.

And thus, just a few weeks later, here is Exocortex Log. A life-logger
and memory aid prototyped using Shakespeare, Claude AI and GPT-5,
then the code fixed manually afterwards.

In about two weeks this app has progressed beyond more
than the prior ten years of my having a half-running
prototype just collecting data that I never got around 
to finishing.

## Why and What

You see a detective on the TV and he's interviewing all
the suspects asking them what they were doing on the night
of the murder a month ago last Tuesday night.

And on the TV, the suspects all know!

If you asked me before the first version of Exocortex Log
though, I'd have had barely any clue. If you're lucky it'd
have been something planned in my calendar but mostly,
dunno. Watching TV maybe? No idea what show.

As we all get older this problem increases I'm told.
Eventually full on senility sets in.

But what if you have already built the habit to record
what you're doing? To be able to look back and revise
and review how you spent your days? An external aid
as a crutch to your own forgetful brain's cortex?

That's what Exocortex Log is for.

## Privacy

You input sensitive data about your life, lifestyle and 
activities to the Exocortex Log, so privacy and data-integrity
are some of the most important issues.

All data remains on your phone/computer. No data is ever
shared back to the server at all.

This means you must be responsible for your own backups.
Be sure to export and back up your data regularly. I have
gaps in my ten year record where my phone was stolen and
most recent backup was months prior.

## Technical details

Exocortex Log is a Progressive Web App. It downloads when
you are online and can be installed onto the homepage of
your phone.

It keeps all data on the local device using indexdb.

It has a grid page, a summary page, a stats page and
an about page, plus links to the Exocortex Blog here
with web pages detailing news about the app and development.

## Future

I have like ten years of data in my log, converted from
those prior prototypes. I will be adding ways to more
usefully compare and analyse data going this far back.

It could maybe use a milestone function, to track what
you eat and drink and other types of event which don't
take actual time so don't spread on the grid.

It could likely use a flashcard system, with spaced
repetition to review the flashcards, for better memory
and recall.

## Try it

Anyway, <a href="https://exocortexlog.com">Try it out</a>,
accept a month of demo test data, add a few events for what
you've done so far today, look at the summary and stats
tools.

If you decide to start logging what you're doing, 
clear the DB and start again. Maybe set a reoccurring
alarm to get you into the habit of doing it. See if
you find it a useful memory aid after a few weeks.

And next time a detective asks you what you were
doing a month last Tuesday, maybe you'll be able
to answer!
