---
date: '2025-12-06T12:00:00Z'
draft: false
title: 'Release!'
author: pre
category:
- news
- exocortexLog
cover:
  alt: An image
  image: /news/img/exocortexlog.png
---

You see a detective on the TV and he's interviewing all
the suspects asking them what they were doing on the night
of the murder a month ago last Tuesday night.

And on the TV, the suspects all know. Right away.

If you asked me ten years ago though, I'd have had barely 
any clue. If you're lucky it'd have been something planned 
in my calendar but mostly, dunno. Watching TV maybe? No idea
what show. Was that a night I was in the pub?

As we all get older this problem increases I'm told.
Eventually full on senility sets in.

But what if you have already built the habit to record
what you're doing? To be able to look back and revise
and review how you spent your days? An external aid
as a crutch to your own forgetful brain's cortex?

So I started this Exocortex Log over a decade ago
and now I can answer: Ten years ago on Tuesday I
was having dinner with the guitarist from my band
and his girlfriend and they burned the pudding.

The app has been half finished and barely able
to even record let alone review for most of that
time, but now it's ready enough that someone else
might use it too if they want.

## Try it

Try it out: https://exocortexlog.com

Accept a month of demo test data, add a few events for what
you've done so far today, look at the summary and stats
tools.

No install needed, the app lives on a web page.

If you decide to start logging what you're doing, 
clear the DB and start again. Maybe install it
for offline use then. Maybe set a reoccurring
alarm to get you into the habit of doing it. See if
you find it a useful memory aid after a few weeks.

And next time a detective asks you what you were
doing a month last Tuesday, maybe you'll be able
to answer!

## Privacy

The thing about a life-logger, is you input sensitive
data about your life, lifestyle and activities, so 
privacy and data-integrity are some of the most 
important issues.

There can be no server, the data has to be yours and
yours alone. Because you can't tell what is happening
to the data in a closed-source app, it must be completely
free and open source.

You can't trust a corporate diary, they must sell
to anyone offering enough money.

So it is with my life log app, all data completely in
your own device. No home server ever sees anything.

There is no home server. Just the code.

To achieve this Exocortex Log is a Progressive Web App. 
It downloads when you are online at the website and 
can be installed onto the homepage of your phone.

It keeps all data on the local device using indexdb.

This means you must be responsible for your own backups.
Be sure to export and back up your data regularly. I have
gaps in my ten year record where my phone was stolen and
most recent backup was months prior.

Once installed it will work offline, airplane mode, no
internet, down in the tube station at midnight, anywhere.

## Roadmap

I have like ten years of data in my log, converted from
those prior prototypes. I will be adding ways to more
usefully compare and analyse data going this far back.

It could maybe use a milestone function, to track singular
events which don't take actual time so don't spread on the 
grid. Snack tracking and the like.

It could likely use a flashcard system, with spaced
repetition to review the flashcards, for better memory
and recall.

Synching between devices might be nice, and lots will 
suggest doing that through Nostr, but Nostr is a bit
public. Would need an encryption layer. Do nostr relays 
want to relay encrypted data from one user to themselves?
I suspect <a href="https://veilid.com/">Veilid</a> would 
be a better option. The "no servers" ethos probably 
includes nostr relays.

Mostly I plan just more and better ways to view the ten
years and growing of data I already have.


## Why now?

Why is it finally ready now after ten years of being a barely functional
input-only android app?

A few weeks ago I saw <a href="https://primal.net/derekross">@derekross@grownostr.org</a>
giving a talk and demo of <a href="https://shakespeare.diy/">Shakespeare</a>,
a Chrome app for vibe-coding.

Explain the app you want, and the model you select will build it.
Don't even need to be a dev they reckon.

So I figured I'd give it a try.

Start again from scratch, import the old data.

In about a week of work this app has progressed 
far beyond the prototypes that spent more then 
ten years as half-running shoddy input-only 
systems that I couldn't be arsed to expand further.

It went [pretty well](https://exocortexlog.com/news/articles/2025-11-25-vibecoding/) to start with, 
something even a non-dev could do, 
then [ceased up](https://exocortexlog.com/news/articles/2025-12-01-fixingvibes/), 
unable to really understand the codebase it'd 
written until I spend a fairly long day manually 
cleaning up it's mess.

So Shakespeare (and presumably all the other tools I haven't
tried) seems okay for a non-dev to prototype a small
app but currently the models are writing code so 
sloppy that they can't then later understand it themselves.
Still needing a dev's guiding hand to keep it from
repeating itself or creating complex unorganized 
unmanageable code.




